---
layout: post
title:  "The Show"
date:  2015-09-16
categories:
comments: True
---


I'm pretty much fed up with with church, or at least the American model of how we do church.

Recently, my family took a break from attending church since our youngest daughter was born and honestly, I don’t really miss going. Is that bad? Maybe.

Don't get me wrong; It’s a great church body with awesome people. I love going to my small group and to the beer and theology hangout nights some of us do. But to tell you the truth, I could do without a Sunday service. Most everything about it feels wrong to me.

I value worshipping God and fellowshipping with believers for sure, but I just can’t help but think there are better ways to do both. We aren’t really *fellowshipping* on a Sunday morning in the hallways before/after service anyways. That happens when we all go out to lunch at the Mexican restaurant near the church. Can we just skip to that part? 

Can we also start drinking beer and margaritas after church? Most of us do on a Friday night, so why not with our brothers in Christ?

I guess I'm frustrated with **"The Show"** you might say. It's tough to tell if I'm at a U2 concert or a church service. Most church guitarists are just copying the Edge anyways (but no one can perform like Bono).

**The Show** is "for the glory of God” you might say or that it helps people connect with God who might not do so otherwise. Really? Seems like most people who enjoy and "get fed" during church services have been Christians for years. These are the same people who complain when the main pastor isn’t speaking that day or their favorite worship leader isn’t singing in their venue or the pumpkin spice creamer ran out for the free coffee!

Why are we so concerned with bringing people into our church buildings in the first place? Didn't Jesus tell us to go out into the world to spread the Gospel? But we spend so much effert on the Sunday performance. Crazy.

Most non-believers I've talked to think the way we do modern church is pretty superficial and a waste of time and resources. I tend to agree.

Is spending thousands of dollars for a top of the line sound and lighting system a good use of tithe money? Or having a huge staff to run the many mediocre programs? I know, the demand is there so churches provide it. Does it make it right though?

I’ve been asked recently to play bass for a few different church services or events and I ultimately declined because I had other things going on (aka a newborn, toddler, and sleep-deprived wife). Regardless, I’d probably only do it for the money. Shallow I know but we get compensated pretty well for what we do. I would like to see how many musicians (at least the good ones) would still play at church if they didn’t get paid.

I get it, we put a lot of time and energy into practice so we can “usher in God’s presence” or something like that…I’ve heard all the arguments for paying worship musicians but it still just feels weird. 

What about the people who spend a ton of energy, resources, and time in doing a food ministry for the homeless? Do they get paid for that? Nope. I would argue that what they are doing is just as time consuming and definitely far more important than what we worship musicians are doing. Which did Jesus spend more of his time focused on? I’ll give you a hint... It didn’t involve rocking out on a Sunday morning and a three point message that we will forget before the next weekend.

I know I sound very pessimistic and I’m not really offering a solution, but at least I’m being honest. And based on conversations with others, I know I'm not the only one who feels frustrated by the overall American church culture. Perhaps it's time we rethink what we are doing and spending our time and resources on.