---
published: true
content: post
date: 2016-03-16T00:00:00.000Z
layout: post
---

**3,000** is about how many calories that I need to consume on a daily bases.

Why? I’m trying to gain some weight. That's why. I'm shooting for 1 lb. a week until I get to 185 lbs. I currently fluctuate between 160 and 165 and am considered a “hard-gainer". This *should* take me about 25 weeks to attain. I don't think I've ever weighted more than 170 so this will definitely be a drastic change.

You might recall from an earlier [post](http://shawnleberknight.com/blog/keto-diet) that I was trying out the keto diet. It was okay in the short term as it felt like a body cleanse but I don't think it's for me in the long term. My energy levels just weren't the same and I wasn't able to perform as well in training. Plus, my goal of gaining mass would be a lot more difficult without sufficient carbs. Anyways, I digress...

Part of why I am doing this is to bring up my strength. Cardio and bodyweight movements are not that much of an issue for me but the barbell work that has always been a challenge. Bringing my weight up should help with that. My gymnastics and cardio may suffer for a bit but that’s okay in the short term. I’ll make sure to incorporate some of that stuff into my workouts but the majority of the work will be with a loaded barbell.

People think it’s hard to eat less to lose weight. For me it’s so much harder to eat more. Constantly eating is a chore and it’s tiring. I’m not doing a dirty bulk where I consume whatever it takes to make up for the calories. I’m not going to stuff my face with McDonalds and candy bars. Consuming this amount of calories **and** eating relatively clean is daunting and takes a lot of prep work.

I started using the Livestrong [MyPlate](http://www.livestrong.com/myplate/) app to track all of my food and water for the day. It’s actually a really nice tool that lets me know how much of each macro I need to eat. I’m getting about 25% of my intake from protein, 15% from carbs, and 60% from fats. On my training days I’ll eat a few more portions of carbs to help recovery and muscle synthesis. The app also allows you to track your weight each day to make sure you are hitting your goals.

You should see my lunchbox though! My coworkers make fun of me saying it looks more like a beach cooler. But hey, I got to have something to fit all of this damn food!

185, here I come!
